# Troubleshooting

**Course:** Google IT Support Professional (Certificate Course)  
**Platform:** Coursera  
**Objective:** Understand the core principles, methods, and best practices used to identify, diagnose, and resolve technical issues effectively in IT support environments.

---

## 🛠️ How to Troubleshoot

- **Troubleshooting** - The ability to diagnose and resolve a problem.

- The first thing you want to do when troubleshooting is to ask questions. Gather the information necessary to identify potential issues before trying to fix the problem.

- IT Support is about working in the service of others. Always try to create a positive experience for the user.

---

## 🔍 Troubleshooting Methods

- **Isolate the Problem** - Ask questions to narrow the scope and more accurately pinpoint the **root cause**.
  - **Root Cause** - The main factor that's causing a range of issues.

- **Follow the Cookie Crumbs** - This method requires you to go back to when the problem first started, and work forward from there.
  - You can gather information from both users and logs.  
  - Logs act like your system’s diary, keeping information about dates and events that occurred. You can dig through logs at the exact time a failure happened and potentially find defining events that caused your issue.

- **Start with the Quickest Step First**

---

## ⚠️ Pitfalls to Avoid

1. Going into autopilot  
2. Not finding the Root Cause  

---

## 🗂️ Ticketing Systems & Documenting Your Work

- **Tickets** - A common way of documenting an issue.  
- **Bugs** - Issues with the system that weren't caused by an external source.

- Example ticketing systems include: **Bugzilla, JIRA, Redmine**.
